vpn tools
---------

There are a few tools here mostly written for users I run into in
the newsgroups, alt.os.linux and alt.os.linux.ubuntu.

The broad concept is that users download a lot of OpenVPN config files
which end with the extension of .ovpn.

If you place all of these ovpn files in a single directory the issue becomes
how to sort them, discarding the bad ones and keeping the good ones. And
on top of that, how to sort them by connection details such as country or 
connection speed. 

The following tools are meant to assist with these issues. 

kickorkeep
----------

This script should run from the terminal while in a directory full of
.ovpn files. It will test each one and sort them into winners and losers. 
A directory called, "kickorkeep" will be created in your $HOME directory. 
Inside that are two directories, "winners" and "losers". 

ovpn files which test positive for a connection will end up in the winners. 
Those that don't will end up in the losers directory. 

vpnit
-----

vpnit is similar to kickorkeep in that it tests the files. However, it is
best to use kickorkeep to sort good from bad. vpnit should be used on the
winners as it will take longer to do its job. vpnit will speed test each
connection and rename the host file into a filename which contains county, 
ping and uploaded / download speed. 

vpnstatus
---------

vpnstatus is an ovpn laucher. You use it to perform two functions. It launches 
and ovpn connection and then continues to actively test the connection status. 
The purpose of this is that you set two arrays within the script to monitor 
the connection and if it fails the script auto-terminates certain apps of
your choosing. 

The default is set to terminate thunderbird if vpnstatus detects the vpn is up. 
If the vpn connection is lost, the torrent downloading app called, transmission
is terminated. You can add other apps to either array to set to your own tastes.

vpntest
-------

If you are not sure what your current OpenVPN status is, you can test it with
vpntest. It is a very quick script that simply details your current connection
info. 

If you have questions, visit me on alt.os.linux or alt.os.linux.ubuntu. 

-Marek
